just so stories by Rudyard Kipling copyright black cat publishing
the elephants child part one the elephants child is a
young elephant and he lives in
the forest in Africa he's gray and he's got big
ears and his nose is small he's a curious
elephant and he asks a lot of questions one hot
summer day he asks his aunt ostrich why have
you got a lot of feathers his aunt gets angry
and hits him he asks his tall uncle giraffe why
have
he asks his big aunt hippopotamus why have you got
red eyes his aunt gets angry and hits him the
elephants child goes to his uncle baboon he asks him
why are bananas good to eat you eat them
every day his uncle gets angry and hits him too
one beautiful day the elephants child goes to the
other elephants and asks a new question what does the
crocodile have for dinner the other elephants
get angry and say be quiet then they hit the
elephants child when he sees the beautiful
collar collar bird he asks can you help me what
do you want asks the collar collar bird what does
the
green limpop or river and find out says the collar
collar bird the next morning the elephants
child sees some friends and talks to them good morning
my friends says the elephants child I'm
going to the limpop or river I want to find
out what the crocodile has for dinner good luck to
you say
his friends thank you he says happily he takes six
bananas and some other fruit and starts walking
one day he sees a python sitting in a tall
tree excuse me python says the elephants child does a
crocodile lives in the green limpop or river what does
he have for dinner asks the elephants child the
python gets angry and hits the elephants child with his
long tail oh dear the elephants child
thinks everyone is angry with me I must go to
the limpop or river he turns around and slowly goes
away
part two the elephants child arrives at the limpop or
river he sees a new animal in the big green
river
what a strange animal he thinks what is it excuse
me he asks does a crocodile live here yes little
please tell me what you have for dinner yes of
course says the crocodile happily come close to me and
I
can tell you the elephants child goes close to the
crocodile today I'm going to have the elephants child
for dinner he says laughing he bites the elephants child's
little nose oh my poor nose cries the elephants child
what are you doing the python sees everything and wants
to help the elephants child he quickly goes to him
and says pull hard the crocodile wants to eat you
and he's very strong the python helps the elephants child
and they
pull together the crocodile pulls and the elephants child and
the python pull the elephants child's nose becomes very
long at last the crocodile let's go and he is
very angry the elephants child is free thank you python
says the elephants child happily you're a good friend your
nose is very long now says the python looking at
it
oh dear you're right says the elephants child and he
looks at his long nose what can I do with
this long nose
the python thinks for a moment and says you can
do a lot of things please tell me says the
elephants child
you can kill flies and you can eat green leaves
from tall trees you can have a cold shower with
water from the river
and you can hit other animals your new nose is
very useful you're right I can do a lot of
things with it
says the elephants child he goes home and shows the
other elephants his new nose look at my new nose
he says it's very long and useful he tells them
about all the things he can do with it his
friends are surprised and like it a lot
we want a new nose like yours say his friends
that's easy says the elephants child
go to the crocodile at Limpapa river he can give
you a long new nose like mine the elephants go
to the green river and find the crocodile
soon they all have long new noses and they are
very happy and this is how the elephant got his
trunk
old man kangaroo the kangaroo is a grey animal with
four short legs and a long tail he lives in
Australia
he likes dancing and he's clever one day at six
o'clock in the morning the kangaroo goes to the
little magician
good morning little magician says kangaroo please make me different
from the other animals what?
cries the little magician angrily go away kangaroo
the kangaroo goes away and has breakfast at eight o
'clock he goes to the middle magician
i want to be different from the other animals says
the kangaroo and i want to be popular make me
different and popular
what? cries the middle magician angrily go away
before lunch the kangaroo goes to the big magician
hello big magician says the kangaroo make me popular and
different i want the other animals to run after me
the big magician is having a bath but looks at
him and has an idea
all right kangaroo says the big magician come here dingo
the dingo goes to the big magician what must i
do asks the dingo
do you see that grey animal asks the big magician
yes i do
says the dingo you must run after him says the
big magician
the dingo starts running after the kangaroo
the two animals run everywhere through the green trees of
the forest and through the hot desert
they run up and down the hills and the mountains
they run through the tall green grass and the short
brown grass
at first the kangaroo likes running fast he thinks it's
great fun
but after a few hours he gets tired
i can't stop running now
thinks the kangaroo the dingo wants to catch me
the dingo likes running fast but he is tired too
i can't stop running now
thinks the dingo but i'm hungry
the kangaroo and the dingo run all over australia
when they get to the wolgong river there is no
bridge
the kangaroo stops running
how can i cross the river?
thinks the kangaroo
there is no bridge so i must hop across
he hops across the river and gets to the other
side
that's easy
he thinks it's easy to hop and i like it
he pulls up his front legs and uses his tail
to help him
then he hops again and again
i love hopping
he thinks
so he hops through the deserts of australia and the
dingo follows him
when is he going to stop?
thinks the dingo
i'm very hungry
at five o'clock in the afternoon the kangaroo and
the dingo see the big magician
he is sitting in the river having another bath
they stop and sit by the river
i'm very tired
says the kangaroo
and i'm very hungry
says the dingo
why don't you thank the dingo?
the big magician asks the kangaroo
thank him says the kangaroo
why?
you want to be different?
says the big magician
no you're different
look at your legs and your long tail
but my long legs are funny
says the kangaroo
looking at his legs
do you want the dingo to run after you until
midnight?
asks the big magician
no, no
says the kangaroo
my legs and long tail are fine
i like them
but now i'm very hungry
i am too
says the dingo
what can i have for dinner?
ask me tomorrow
says the big magician
so the kangaroo and the dingo
are tired and hungry
in the middle of australia
they look at each other
all of this is your fault
says the dingo
now it's not
says kangaroo
it's your fault
you're wrong
says the dingo
it's your fault
and at midnight
they are still arguing
the animals of australia
australia has a lot of animals
that you can't find
in other places in the world
let's have a look at some of them
the kangaroo
is probably the most popular
animal of australia
the kangaroo is a marsupial
that means that it carries its young
in a special pouch
a baby kangaroo is called a joey
when a joey is born
it is very small
only about two centimeters long
it lives in its mother's pouch
for nine months before leaving it
the kangaroo
is a herbivore
it eats only grass
and plants and does not eat meat
it can grow to two meters
and weigh around 90 kilograms
it moves about
by hopping
some kangaroos are red
and some are grey
they live in all parts of australia
the koala
the koala is often called the koala bear
because it looks like a small bear
but it is not a bear
it is a marsupial
it lives in trees
and does not like staying on the ground
it eats leaves and fruit
the koala sleeps most of the day in trees
and usually eats at night
it lives in eastern and southern
australia near the sea
the emu
is a very big bird in australia
it is about two meters tall
it does not fly
but it can run very fast
around 50 kilometers an hour
it lives in all areas of australia
but it doesn't like forests
it eats plants
and insects
the platypus
the platypus lives in small rivers in eastern australia
and is an excellent swimmer
it has a very strange nose
this looks like a duck's mouth
it can also live in and out of water
it sleeps during the day
and moves at night
it eats small animals and insects
it is about the size of a cat
how the leopard got his spots
part one
all the animals of the hot African savanna
are a dark yellow or light brown color
they are the same color as the grass and trees
around them
it's difficult to see the dark yellow giraffe
and the light brown zebra
and the leopard
is very difficult to see
because he is exactly the same color as the savanna
the leopard often hunts giraffes and zebras with a young
man
they are both very good hunters
all the giraffes and zebras
are afraid of them
I'm afraid of the leopard
because I can't see him
and he always surprises me
says the zebra
you're right
says the giraffe
I'm afraid of him too
but I'm also very afraid of the man
we're always in danger here
says the zebra
why don't we go somewhere else
yes
let's go away
says the giraffe
follow me
so the giraffe and the zebra
go to a big forest
this is a lovely forest with beautiful colors
says the giraffe happily
yes everything is green, brown or black
and it's not hot here
says the zebra
I like it
there are a lot of tall green trees in the
forest
the trees and plants
make strange shadows
they fall on the animals
and they don't go away
look at me
says the giraffe
I've got some patches on my body
yes you have
says the zebra
they are beautiful
and you've got some wonderful
stripes on your body
says the giraffe
the zebra looks at his body
and sees the stripes
he likes them and he's happy
now we can hide from the leopard
says the giraffe
he can smell us and he can hear us
but he can't see us
the zebra and the giraffe are
happy and safe in the big forest
the leopard and the man go hunting
but they can't find the zebra and the giraffe
where are the zebra and the giraffe?
asks the man
I can smell them
and I can hear them
but I can't see them
says the leopard
they go and ask a clever baboon
called Bhavian
where are the zebra and the giraffe?
asks the leopard
we can't find them and we're hungry
you must go through the big green forest
said Bhavian
you can find them there
and you can look for spots too
spots
asks the leopard
yes spots
says Bhavian
I don't understand
says the leopard
when you're in the green forest
look for spots
says Bhavian
the leopard and the man go to the forest
but they can't find the animals
what a strange place
says the leopard
yes it's dark but it's full of spots of light
says the man
are these the spots Bhavian talks about?
asks the leopard
perhaps
says the man
I can smell a giraffe
and I can hear a giraffe
says the man
but I can't see it
and I can smell a zebra
and I can hear a zebra
says the leopard
but I can't see it
they look around the forest
why can't we see them?
asks the man
that's a good question
says the leopard
part two
I know the animals are here somewhere
says the leopard
but I can't see them
let's wait until the night
all right
says the man
they sit down and wait
when it is dark
they hear and smell the zebra
and the giraffe
the man catches the giraffe
ah now you're mine
he says happily
and the leopard catches the zebra
and now you're mine
he shouts
looking at the zebra
but there's something strange about these animals
you're right
says the man
let's wait until morning and see
the next morning
the leopard and the man
look at the two animals carefully
what's this
says the leopard
a zebra with stripes
and what's this
says the man
a giraffe with patches
the leopard and the man
are very surprised
the giraffe and the zebra
laugh
why are you different?
asks the leopard
looking at the zebra and the giraffe
please let us go
and we can show you our trick
says the giraffe
yes show us
say the leopard and the man
the giraffe and the zebra
go under the tall green trees
suddenly the leopard and the man
can't see them anymore
where are you?
asks the man
the giraffe and the zebra laugh
I can hear you laugh
but I can't see you
says the leopard
laughs the giraffe
where's your breakfast now?
the leopard and the man
don't know where they are
we're here under the tall trees
says the zebra
but it's almost impossible
to see us because we look like
the shadows of the forest
you're right
says the leopard
that's a very good trick
says the man
I think I need spots too
says the leopard
that's what bavian says
and he's clever
it's a good idea
says the man
it's more difficult to see you with spots
the leopard goes into the forest
and its shadows fall on him
now he has dark spots on his body
and they don't go away
you've got some lovely dark spots
all over your body
says the man
I like them
says the leopard
now I can hide in the forest
like the giraffe and the zebra
yes says the man
now no one can find you in the forest
I'm very happy
says the leopard
and I'm hungry
let's go hunting
yes good idea
says the man
listening activity
good morning
I'm Sam Wilson
the safari tour guide
the Monday morning tour
starts in 10 minutes
that's at half past nine
on Sundays and holidays
we start at 10 o'clock
please buy your tickets now
at the ticket office on your right
adults pay 15 euros
and children between
8 and 16 pay 10 euros
however children
under the age of 8 can come for free
and now the good news
families with two or more children
pay only 35 euros
everyone on the tour must have a hat
and a pair of sunglasses
because the sun is very hot in the afternoon
actually it's always hot here
and don't forget to bring a bottle of water too
our safari tour starts at the safari
national park entrance
this national park
is the biggest in the area
we're going to ride for about
8 miles in the hot savannah
during the morning
in the savannah we're going to see
leopards, zebras, giraffes, elephants
and hippos
get your cameras ready
at half past noon
we're going to stop for a short lunch break
there are free sandwiches
and drinks for everyone
in the afternoon
we're going to ride for six miles
in the jungle near the green river
this is very exciting
because we're going to see monkeys
baboons, crocodiles, snakes
and different kinds of African birds
please don't touch the animals
because it can be dangerous
how the whale got his throat
the whale is a big animal
and he lives in the sea
he is always hungry and eats
many different fish and sea animals
he doesn't have a throat
and this means he can eat very big things
as well as very small things
a very small fish
called the little fish
also lives in the sea
he is clever
the whale is eating all the fish in the sea
the little fish thinks
I'm afraid
I don't want him to eat me
I must hide behind his ear
but suddenly the whale stands up on his big tail
and sees the little fish
I'm hungry
says the whale in a loud voice
what's this?
a little fish
hello great whale
says the little fish
do you like eating man?
I don't know
says the whale
looking at the little fish
I prefer dolphins or sharks
what is man like?
oh man is very good
says the clever little fish
really?
says the whale
yes
says the little fish
believe me
can you find a man for me
asks the whale
of course I can
says the little fish
you must swim to the north
and in the middle of the sea
there is a young sailor on a raft
he's wearing blue trousers
and braces
good let's go
says the whale
the whale and the little fish
swim across the sea
soon the whale sees the sailor
sitting on a raft
good I'm very hungry
says the whale
he opens his big mouth
and eats the young sailor
and the raft
says the whale
man is very good
the sailor and his raft
are inside the whale's stomach
what's happening to me?
thinks the sailor
he is afraid
where am I?
it's warm and dark in here
oh no
I'm inside a whale
what can I do?
the sailor is very clever
and looks around
he starts thinking
this whale can't eat me
he says angrily
he starts jumping
kicking and dancing
inside the whale's stomach
the whale is very unhappy
and feels ill
I've got a terrible stomach ache
says the unhappy whale
I'm sorry whale
says the little fish
what's the sailor doing?
asks the whale
do you know little fish?
I don't know
says the little fish
the sailor continues
jumping kicking and dancing
inside the whale's stomach
oh says the whale
I feel sick
I'm going to ask the sailor
to come out
says the little fish
thank you
that's a good idea
says the whale
please come out
cries the little fish
what?
answers the sailor
the whale's got a terrible stomach ache
says the little fish
please come out right now
no I'm not coming out
says the sailor angrily
you must take me home to England first
all right
says the poor whale
I can take you home
the whale and the little fish
start swimming fast
they swim across the sea to England
while the whale and the little fish swim
the sailor breaks up the raft
and ties the pieces together
with his braces
when they get to the beach in England
the sailor has a big surprise
for the whale
whale open your big mouth
says the sailor
I want to get out
the whale opens his mouth
and the sailor walks out
but he leaves his raft in the whale's mouth
now my raft is your throat
and you can never eat men again
says the sailor
with this raft
you can only eat very small fish
what?
only very small fish
says the whale angrily
I don't want this in my throat
the whale coughs and coughs
but the raft doesn't move
he is very sad and slowly swims away
the sailor is on the beach
and watches the whale swim away
goodbye whale
says the sailor happily
now you can't eat men anymore
men aren't nice
and they give me a stomach ache
says the whale
small fish are much better
whales
what do you know about whales?
here are some interesting facts
whales live in the sea
but they are not fish
they are mammals
they need air to live
they must come up to the top of the water
often
to get air
they breathe air in and out
through the blowhole on their back
when whales sleep
they stay on the top of the water
the biggest whale is the blue whale
it is around 30 meters long
and weighs about 200 tons
whales swim by moving their tails up and down
and by using their flippers
their flippers help them to turn around
whales make a lot of noise
because they talk to each other
their underwater sounds can travel very far
whales usually live in groups
a baby whale is called a calf
plural, calves
whales move from one place to another
during the warm summer months
they eat a lot because they get ready for the
winter
in the autumn they start moving south
to warm places
and in the spring they move north
the killer whale is a very popular and dangerous whale
here is some information about it
the killer whale
name
orca
or killer whale
color
black
and white
size
around 8 meters for males
and 7 meters for females
lives
in all major oceans
from the Arctic areas of Alaska, Canada, Scandinavia
and Russia to the warm oceans in the south
they usually live in groups of around 40 whales
the killer whale can live for 30 to 50 years
eats, fish and other sea animals
a very dangerous predator
how the camel got his hump
the horse, the dog and the ox work for the
farmer
but the camel does not
he has a long neck and long legs
he lives alone in the desert
and doesn't want to work
he eats and sleeps
and when someone speaks to him
he says
hump
on Monday morning the horse goes to see the camel
camel says the horse
come and work like all the other animals
I carry men on my back and work hard all
day
hump
says the camel and the horse goes away
on Tuesday morning the dog goes to see the camel
camel says the dog
come and work like all the other animals
I guard the farmer's house
I work hard day and night
hump says the camel
and the dog goes away
on Wednesday the big ox goes to see the camel
camel says the big ox
come and work for the farmer
I work hard in the country all day
hump says the camel
and the ox goes away
the animals go and tell the farmer about the lazy
camel
the camel is very lazy
says the horse
he doesn't want to work
says the ox
he just eats and sleeps
and says
hump says the dog
the farmer thinks for a moment and then says
you three must work more than
what?
the animals say
but we don't want to work more
you must work more because the camel doesn't want to
work
says the farmer
the horse the ox and the dog are very angry
and they start talking
the camel walks by and listens to them
hump says the camel
and goes away laughing
the animals don't know what to do
we need help
says the horse
yes says the dog sadly
but who can help us?
suddenly the desert magician arrives on a big cloud
he is a great magician and lives in the desert
he is everyone's friend
hello?
he says
what are you talking about?
why are you angry?
oh desert magician
says the horse
we have a big problem
what's your problem?
asks the desert magician
tell me about it
the camel in the desert doesn't want to work
says the horse
why doesn't he want to work?
asks the desert magician
he is lazy
says the ox
yes
says the horse
very lazy
and we must do more work
says the dog
we already work hard all day long
says the ox
what does the camel say?
asks the desert magician
he always says
hump
says the horse
i must go and talk to the camel
says the desert magician
the desert magician's magic cloud
carries him to the desert
and he sees the camel
he is standing near a pool of water
why don't you want to work camel?
asks the desert magician
humph
says the camel
looking at the pool of water
the other animals must work more
because you don't work
says the desert magician
humph
says the camel
don't say
humph
says the desert magician
you must start working
the camel looks at himself
in the pool of water
i'm a great magician
thinks the desert magician
what magic can i do?
the camel must work
the desert magician sits down
and thinks about something magic
suddenly the camel has a big
hump on his back
he looks in the pool of water
and sees it
he is very surprised
what's that on my back?
he asks the desert magician
it's your
humph
says the desert magician
i don't like it
and i don't want it
says the camel
angrily
how can i work with this
hump on my back
now you can work more
than the other animals
says the desert magician
with your hump
you don't need to eat or drink
for three days
what?
says the camel angrily
i don't want to work
now be quiet
and start working
says the desert magician
the camel walks away slowly
and joins the other animals
when the other animals see him
they laugh and laugh
on that day
the camel starts working
but he still isn't friendly